Distributor: Map Non-Retryable Errors to Retryable in OTLP Endpoint (#8324)
grafana/mimir: CHANGELOG.md

* [ENHANCEMENT] Ingester/Querier: Optimise regexps with long lists of alternates. #8221, #8234
* [ENHANCEMENT] Ingester: Include more detail in tracing of queries. #8242
* [EHNAHCEMENT] Distributor: add `insight=true` to remote-write and OTLP write handlers when the HTTP response status code is 4xx. #8294

> * [BUGFIX] Map Non-Retryable Errors to Retryable in OTLP Endpoint. #8324

Reviewer: This makes little sense to me. Can we explain that OTLP endpoint currently uses codes that would be retry-able in Prometheus remote-write protocol, but are not retryable in OTLP. This PR fixes the mapping.

Reviewer 2: [Nit] I also don't see the point of title case in a changelog item.

> * [BUGFIX] Distributor: prometheus retry on 5xx and 429 errors, while otlp collector only retry on 429, 502,503 and 504, mapping other 5xx errors to the retryable ones in otlp endpoint. #8324

Reviewer 3: Is it really a bug fix? IMO a bug fix is something that we introduced in a previous release (so prior to Mimir 2.12) and that we want to fix in this release (so in Mimir 2.13). Is it really the case here?
If yes, then it is OK to call it a bugfix. Otherwise it is an enhancement.

[nit]: 429, 502,503 and 504 => 429, 502, 503 and 504

Author: It comes from an incident, that user could lost data due to not retry.

> * [BUGFIX] Distributor: prometheus retry on 5xx and 429 errors, while otlp collector only retry on 429, 502, 503 and 504, mapping other 5xx errors to the retryable ones in otlp endpoint. #8324

Reviewer: As an end-user, I have no idea what you're saying here.

What about:

```suggestion
* [BUGFIX] OTLP handler: return only retryable HTTP status codes when we want client to retry the request. Unlike Prometheus which retries on 429 and all 5xx codes, OTLP only retries requests on 429, 502, 503 and 504. #8324
```

Author: which part you think is not suitable in the origin description?

Reviewer: As a reader, from the original description I don't understand what has changed and why. I'm suggesting to improve message to highlight what is changed, how did it work before, and reason for the change.
